Translator: Lina Elimam Auditor: Ayman Mahmoud
Chris Anderson: Citizen Rights
The future of the Internet
So I want to welcome you to the TED Theater
The man behind these discoveries
Ed Snowden.
(clap)
Ed is located far away in Russia
He controls this robot through his laptop
To see what the robot can see,
Welcome, TED Theater
What can you actually see?
Edward Snowden: Here I can see everyone.
It is amazing!
(Laughter)
Chris: Ed some questions for you.
You have been described by many attributes
During the past few months;
You were called a traitor's corruption detector
a hero
What qualities would you describe yourself with?
Ed: You know everyone who displays
For this discussion
He suffers to understand me and to understand my personality
How can he describe me.
But when I think about it;
We do not have to waste our time on this question
Who I am really doesn't matter much.
If I were the worst person in the world
You can hate me and move on
What really matters here is what matters.
What really matters here is the type of government we want,
The type of internet we want,
The type of relationships between people
And societies.
And this is what I hope this discussion will lead to.
And we have seen remarkable progress over time.
If I had to describe myself
I wouldn't use a word like "hero"
I will not use a word like "my country" and I will not use a word like "traitor".
I will say that I am an American citizen
Just like everyone else.
Chris: So let's give some background
For those who don't know the full story--
(clap)--
This time last year I was staying in Hawaii
She works as a consultant to NSA
As a sysadmin, I have access
To their systems
And you started to reveal some of the classified files
To some of the chosen journalists
And that led to the June statements.
Now what motivated you to do this?
Ed: You know
When I was staying in Hawaii
During the past years, when I worked with the intelligence service
I saw many things that bothered me
We do many good things in the intelligence service
important things
And things that serve everyone.
But there are also things that go beyond that.
There are things that should not be done
And decisions made in secret
Out of public awareness
Without their consent,
And without even knowing our representatives in the government
With these programs.
When I started fighting these programs
I thought
How can I do this work in the most responsible way?
And that increases the public interest
While reducing the risk?
And among all the solutions that I came up with
By visiting Congress
When there were no laws
It can protect
Private employee
The intelligence contractor is like me
There was a risk that I could be buried with this information
And that the public will not know anything.
But the first American constitutional amendment
Freedom of the press guaranteed us for a reason
It is to allow the hostile press
Challenge the government
But also to work together with the government
To embrace the debate and debate about how
Inform the public about matters of utmost importance,
Without jeopardizing our national security.
And by working with journalists
And give all the information
I own the American people
Instead of delegating myself
To make a publishing decision
We had strong discussions
The government has invested deeply in it
Which I think has created a public interest for everyone.
Also the dangers threatening us
And that was manipulated
By the government
It has not been embodied.
We did not see any evidence
Or even an abstract incident of particular harm
Because of that
I am satisfied with the decision I made
Chris: So let me join the audience
Some examples of things I uncovered.
Can we upload the slideshow Ed and
I don't know if you can see
Here is the slide.
This is a chip for PRISM
Perhaps you could tell the audience
Nothing was revealed.
Ed: The best way to understand PRISM
Because there was some controversy
First I have to talk about things PRISM does not represent
Much controversy in the United States was about metadata.
They said it was only metadata
They are talking about a legal authority
Section 215 of the Patriot Act is called.
Which gives court permission to eavesdrop on phone conversations
Through comprehensive monitoring of telephone records
In the country, things like -
Who are you talking to
When do you speak to them
where did you travel.
All of these are metadata events.
PRISM is about content.
It is a program through which the government can
To force the Caboards of America
And delegate it
To do her dirty job for NSA.
Although most of these companies resisted,
Some even
I think Yahoo was one
I challenged them in court but lost
It did not try an open court.
They only tried a secret court.
One of the things that we saw
It is related to the PRISM program which is of concern to me
There was a point of discussion in the state government
They said that 15 federal judges
They reviewed these programs and found them legal
But what they don't tell you is
That these judiciary were secret
In a secret court
Depending on secret interpretations of the law
And that was considered 34,000 notes
During 33 years
During these 33 years he was rejected
11 government requests.
These are not the people we want them to decide about us
What is America’s role?
What does the Internet have to be free and free?
Chris: Now this slide that we're showing here
Show us the dates
Technology and Internet companies joined
To the program
And where did you start collecting data from them.
Now they deny cooperating with the NSA
How was this data collected by the NSA?
Ed: Correct! So the NSA chips
Refer to it as a direct source
What does this mean for an NSA analyst
A guy like me used to work as an intelligence analyst
Hackers target the Chinese
Things like this in Hawaii
Is the data source
Directly from the server.
this does not mean
There is a group of company representatives
They sit in a smoke-filled room with NSA
They befriend and make side deals
About the way to exchange information.
Now each company handles the matter in different ways
Some are responsible
Others are less responsible
But the bottom line is that when we talk
What is this information about?
It comes from the companies themselves.
The lines are not stolen.
But there is something to remember here
Although these companies have evaded
But it is still required
Let's do this through a legally authorized process
Let's do this
Where we have a legal review,
As some rules to provide
This user information,
We saw some stories on the Washington Post pages last year
It has not been reported and the PRISM story has been reported
Which reported the NSA hack
For the contact data center
Between google for the same
And Yahoo for itself.
So even these companies that contribute
At least you contribute coercively but I hope in a legitimate way
With the NSA.
But the NSA was not satisfied.
Because of that we need our companies
To work hard
To ensure that she will act
User interests will also defend
About the rights of users
Also I thought over the past year
We saw the companies mentioned
On the PRISM chip
Take great steps to do this
I encourage them to continue.
Chris: What do they have to do more?
Ed: The biggest things any internet company can
In America you play today at this moment
Without consulting lawyers
In order to protect the rights of its users around the world
It is to allow the use of the SSL code on the Internet
On every page you visit.
The reason why this is so important today;
It is if you can look at a copy of 1984 on amazon
NSA can see a record of that
Russian intelligence can also see a copy
And also the Chinese
French intelligence and German intelligence
And Andorra intelligence.
They can all see a copy because it is not encoded.
Amazon is the world's library
But not only do they support cryptographic services with the automatic option
But they don't give you the option to use it
When searching through books,
This is something we need to change.
Not only for Amazon I don't mean to set them apart
But they are a good example.
All companies need to be transferred
To automatic encrypted search services
For all users who have not taken any initiative
Or choose any special method on their own.
This will enhance privacy and rights
That people in the world enjoy.
Chris: Ed come with me to this part of the platform.
I want to show you the next slide here (Applause)
This is a program called Unrestricted Information.
What is that?
Ed: So I have to give some appreciation to the NSA
To use a suitable name here.
This is one of the best names for NSA.
Unrestricted information
It is a program hidden by the NSA by Congress.
The NSA was previously asked by Congress
If she had any ability to give
approximation
For the amount of American communications
That were exposed.
But they refused. They said they do not follow these statistics
And they cannot.
We cannot tell you the number of calls
That we penetrate around the world
Because I tell you so
It is an infringement of your privacy.
Now I really appreciate their point
But when you look at this slide
You will see they not only have the ability
Capacity is already there.
It is used.
NSA has its own data format system
And who monitors both ends of the call
And if I tell
About that this call came from America
They can tell Congress about the number of these contacts
That you observe today at this moment
What does unrestricted information tell us?
Is that a lot of connections are being hacked
In America, it is issued by Americans
It is more than the one that is hacked and exported in Russia through Russia.
I'm not sure if this is what you should aim for
The Intelligence Agency.
Chris: There was a story that topped the Washington Post
From the information you shared.
The headlines say
The NSA has breached privacy laws
Thousands of times during the year
Tell us about that.
Ed: Last year we also heard a testimony in Congress
She was amazing to someone like me
Which was part of the NSA
Real Internet documents
He knows what's inside
To see people testifying under oath
There are no infringements
And that there were no violations of the NSA laws
When we learned of this story.
But the most exciting thing about this
It is the fact that the NSA has passed
Its laws and rules
Thousands of times in one year
One incident involved
Of 2,776 cases
It affected more than 3000 people.
In another incident they were hacked
All calls in Washington DC by mistake.
Amazing about this
The report did not get much attention
It is the fact that there were only 2,776 assaults
But the Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee
Dianne Feinstein did not see this report
Until the Washington Post called her
I asked her to comment on the report.
Then I requested a copy of the NSA
And I got it
But she had not seen that report before.
What does this tell us about the censorship status?
In American intelligence
When she doesn't have the Senate Chief of Intelligence
The slightest idea about the laws that were passed
Thousands of times a year?
Chris: Ed, give me one answer to answer the debate about:
Sincerely why should we care
With this oversight?
I mean if you don't do anything wrong
There is nothing to worry about.
What is wrong with this view?
Ed: Well first thing it is
You waive your rights.
You tell them
You do not need it.
So I am sure
It will be eliminated because it is not important
These people will do the right thing
Your rights are important
Because you don't know when you'll need them.
Beyond that is part of our cultural identity
Not only in America
But in western societies
And in democratic societies around the world.
People should be able to hold the phone
And contact their family
People should be able to send text messages
For loved ones
People should be able to purchase a book online
They should be able to travel by train
And to buy plane tickets
Without asking how these incidents could
You look for any government agent
Potentially not a customer in your government
Within years from now
How will it be misinterpreted
How will they think about your intentions then?
We have the right to privacy.
We require settlements based on a possible cause
Or any kind of individual suspicion
Because we realize that we entrust anyone
Or any government authority
A matter of all human communications
In secret and without supervision
It is simply a great fit that cannot be ignored.
Chris: Some people are so angry for what I did.
I recently heard a quote from Dick Cheney
And what Julian Assange said was the flea bite
But Edward Snowden is the lion who bitten the dog's head
He thinks you did
One of the worst betrayals
In American history
What do you say to people who think so?
Ed: Dick Cheney is another.
(Laughter) (Applause)
Thank you. (Laughter)
I think it's amazing because at the time
In which Julian Assange was doing his greatest work
He used to say Dick Cheney
It will end governments worldwide
And that the heavens will ignite
And that the seas will boil
And now he talks about a flea bite.
So we have to be careful about
Inflated national security issues
By this kind of officials?
But let's assume that these people really believe this
I can discuss that they have a species
From a narrow understanding of national security.
Powers of people like Dick Cheney
Do not maintain our national security.
Public interest is inconsistent
Always with the national interest.
Go to war with people who are not our enemies
In places that are not threatening
Do not make us safer
This applies both to Iraq
Or on the Internet.
The Internet is not the enemy.
Our economy is not the enemy.
American trade and Chinese trade
And what company is there
It is part of our community.
It is part of our continuous world.
There are fraternal ties that unite us.
And if we destroy these links
Undermining values ​​and security
And behavior
What is expected of us all citizens and nations around the world
To stick to it.
Chris: But you were allegedly stolen
1.7 million documents
But it appears that some hundreds of them
It was shared with journalists
Do we expect to reveal other things?
Ed: Certainly there are many statements to follow
I do not think there is any question
That some of the most important reports
Not yet issued.
Chris: Come here because I want to ask you
For a specific permit.
Come take a look at this.
I mean, this is a story of many rationing in this room
Pose more topic shocking them
During the past few months.
It's about a program called "Paul Run".
Can you explain it to us?
Ed: All right, Paul Run again
We should thank the NSA for its frankness
This is a program that was named after one of the Civil War fights
The British name is Adjil.
Which is one of the battles in the British Civil War.
And the reason why I think they were named as such
Because it targets our infrastructure
It is an NSA program
You mean to mislead the participating companies.
They tell them that this
Sound standards
They say we want to work with you
In order to secure your systems
But the truth is that they are giving advice
For these companies and that
Attenuation of the security of their services.
They are building behind the doors not just as possible
The NSA exploited it
But everyone else has time and money
He can search for him and find him
Then use it to enter
To the world of communications
This is very dangerous
Because if we lose one standard
If we lose confidence in the SSL
Which was specifically targeted
By the Paul Run program.
We will live in a less secure world.
We will not be able to enter our banks
We will not be able to enter the trade
Without worrying that these people are watching our communications
Or sabotaging it for their own good
Chris: Are these decisions unbearable?
Exposing America to cyber attacks
From other sources
Ed: Absolutely
One of the problems
The most dangerous legacies
That we saw after 9/11
Is that the NSA has traditionally wore two caps.
They control the offensive operations
Which is piracy,
But they also controlled defensive operations
Traditionally they have always given priority
To defend against attack
According to the law
The American secrets are more important
If we break through Chinese trade
We stole their secrets
If we attack the government offices in Berlin
That is why Americans are less important
Make sure that the Chinese
They will not be able to access our secrets.
So by reducing the security of our communications
They don't just put the world in danger
They fundamentally put America at risk
Because intellectual priorities are the basics
And the pillars of our economy
And if we put that at risk by weakening our security
We will pay the price for years
Chris: But they did calculations
It proved important to do so
As part of America's defense against terrorism.
It definitely makes it a good price.
Ed: Well when you look at the results of these programs
To stop terrorism
You will see that it is unfounded
You do not have to take my words
Because we held the first open court
Federal review of this topic
Outside the secret procedure
These programs are called strange
It has nothing to do with the constitution.
Congress, which had free access
And see these things
Now he has the desire
To issue notes to fix them
Two separate symposia are held in the White House
I checked all these classified guides
She said that these programs never stopped
Any terrorist attack
Almost happening in the United States.
So what we are trying to stop is it the reality of terrorism?
Do these programs have any value at all?
I answer no and all three branches
The US government also says no.
Chris: I mean, do you think there is a deeper stimulus?
From the war against terrorism?
Ed: Sorry I couldn't hear you, come back again?
Chris: Sorry, do you think there is a deeper stimulus?
For them more than the war against terrorism?
Ed: Yes the bottom line is that the war on terror
It has always been what we call intelligence
With the process cover.
Terror is something that stirs
An emotional response that allows people
Justify the permitting of powers and programs
They will not allow it in any other case.
The Ball Run and the Adhige are of type programs
That the NSA has requested clearance of
In the nineties
They asked the FBI to submit the case to Congress
The FBI filed the case
But the Congress and the American people refused.
It is not of value to threaten our economy
They also said it would generate harm
Greater for our society, which cannot justify the benefits.
But we saw it in the post-9/11 era
They used secrecy and justifications for terrorism
To secretly start these programs
Without asking Congress
Or the American people
Also this is the type of government that works behind closed roles
That we need to protect ourselves against
It makes us less safe
It does not provide any value.
Chris: Okay, come with me here for a second
Because I'm going to ask you a personal question.
When we talk about terrorism
Most people find the situation you are in now
In Russia it is very scary.
You probably heard about what happened
The treatment received by Bradley Manning
Chelsea Manning is currently
And there was a story in Bazfid saying that
There are people in the intelligence service
They want you dead.
How to cope with this situation?
How to cope with fear?
Ed: Not a mystery
Some governments want me dead
She clarified again and again
I sleep every morning
And I think about what I can do for the American people.
I do not want to harm my government.
I want to help her
But the fact that they wish
In ignoring the required legal procedures
They also wish to accuse me of guilt
Without watching any trial
These are the things that we need to act against
As a society we have to declare it inappropriate.
We should not threaten the rogue
And do not criminalize journalists
And anything I can do to end that
I am happy to do it despite the danger.
Chris: I want to take an opinion
Some of the attendees are here
Because I know there are different reactions
By Edward Snowden
Suppose you currently have these two options?
You can see what it did
Basically reckless
Putting America at risk
Or do you see it as a work with a heroic basis
It can serve America and the world
The long-term?
These are the two options that will give you.
I am burning to see who will vote
For the first option
Was this a reckless act?
Are there some hands raised?
Some hands went up.
It is difficult to raise your hand
When the person stands in front of you here
But I see those hands.
Ed: I can see you (Laughter)
Chris: And whoever agrees with the second option
Heroic-based work?
(Applause) (encouragement)
Also it is true that many did not
They raise their hands
They are still thinking about this
Because it seems to me that the debate is around you
Does not bias the accepted political lines.
It is not my left or my right, it is not about
Free government supporters or that part of it
General issue only.
You are part of a generation raised
Online and as it appears
You resent to depths
If you see something being done
And you think it will harm the Internet.
Is there anything truth in this?
Ed: It is. I think it is true.
This is not a subject of left or right.
Our basic freedoms when I say that
I do not mean the Americans
I mean all the people around the world
It is not a partisan matter.
These are things that all people believe
And it's all our responsibility to protect it
And the responsibility of the people who have fun
With free and open internet
It is our responsibility to maintain this freedom
For the next generation to enjoy it
And if we do not change things
If we do not stand to make changes
That we need to maintain a secure internet
Not only for our sake but for everyone
We will lose that
It will be a great loss
Not only to us but to the world.
Chris: Well I heard a similar language
From the founder of the World Wide Web
Which I believe is Sir Tim Berners-Lee
Tim, actually would you like to come and tell us
Do we have a microphone for Tim?
(clap)
Tim good to see you come here
By the way, which party do you belong to?
Traitor, hero? I have a theory about this however
Tim: I gave some long answers to that
But a hero
If I had to choose between the two.
Chris: I think you've read
The proposal that Sir Tim talked about
About the new Magna Carta to retrieve the Internet
Is this a logical thing?
Ed: Certainly I mean my generation hasn't grown older
Only I am thinking about the Internet
But I grew up inside the Internet
Although I did not expect to get the chance
To defend him in a direct and practical way
And to show it in an unusual way
Almost symbolic method
I think there is a poetic way about this fact
One of the sons of the Internet
Really close to the internet
As a result of expressing his political direction.
And I think Magna Carta is for the internet
It is exactly what we need
We need to encode our values
Not only through writing but in the structure of the Internet
It is something that I hope
To invite everyone from the audience
Not only here in Vancouver but around the world
Until they join and participate.
Chris: Do you have a question for Ed?
Tim: Well two questions
General question
Chris: Ed, can you still hear us?
Ed: Yes, I can hear you Chris: Uh, he's back.
Tim: Your tapping line
He was intercepted for a moment.
(Laughter)
Ed: It's a little NSA issue
Tim: So over the past 25 years
I can go back and think
What do you think it could be
The best thing we can do
From all of these discussions
What network do we want?
Ed: When we think about
How much we can accomplish
I think it is a restricted question
Our desire to serve the cause.
I think the internet we enjoyed in the past
It became exactly what we needed, not just as a nation
But what all people around the world need
And in cooperation not only with involvement
The technical part of society
But as I have users
People around the year who contribute
Online and social media
Who are only checking the weather
And who depend on him daily as part of their lives
To defend him.
We will not only get the internet that we had
But the internet is better
Something we can use to build a future
It will get better not only than we had hoped
But anything that we imagined.
Chris: Thirty years when TED was founded
Lots of conversations since then
It was about texts
That George Uriel erred on.
It is not the older brother who is watching us.
We are through the power of the network
And transparency we watch the older brother.
Your declarations are kind of broken
Optimistic views
But you still believe that there is a way to do
Something about it.
And you do that.
Ed: It is true that there is an argument that must be made
It is that the powers of the older brother have increased dramatically.
There is a recent article at Yale University
He founded something called the Bankstone Soltaney Base
Which is touched upon because the privacy that we expected was violated
When it became government oversight capabilities
Low in exponential value.
And every time that happens, we need to review
We balance our rights to privacy
Now this has not happened since
Government powers would increase
Regulatory exponential amount
And for that we are facing this problem today
But there is still hope,
Because the strength of people
It has also increased by technology
And I'm the biggest example of
That someone can go head-to-head
Defying the most powerful opponents
The most powerful intelligence agency
Around the world and succeed,
And I think this is something
We have to be optimistic about it
And we build on it
To make it available not only to legal experts
But for ordinary citizens around the world
The press is not a crime
Communication is not a crime
And we should not be monitored in our daily activities.
Chris: I'm not sure how you can shake hands with a robot's hand
But imagine that this hand is here. Tim: Sv is coming up soon.
Ed: Glad to meet you
And I hope my picture looks good
As the picture I see you.
Chris: Thanks Tim.
(clap)
I mean, the New York Times called for a public page on you.
Do you welcome the opportunity to come to America again?
Ed: Certainly, really, no question
The principles that formed the basis
this project
It was in the public interest
And for the principles that are based
It has press in the United States
And around the world
And I think if the media tell that they are
They support it
This thing has to happen
This is a strong argument, but it is not the last argument
And I think this is something the public has to decide
But at the same time
The government hinted
They kind of want a deal
They want me to expose
The journalists I deal with
until I come back,
And I want to clarify
I didn't do it to be safe
I did this to do the right thing
I will not stop my work for service
Public interest
Just to serve myself.
(clap)
Chris: Just in time
As a courtesy of the Internet and this technology
I returned here to North America
Not the United States but Canada in this way.
I'm excited to know how you feel?
Ed: Canada is different from what I expected.
It is warmer.
(Laughter)
Chris: Here at TED, it's our mission to spread valuable ideas
Can you summarize this conversation in one idea?
What is your idea worth spreading
Now at this moment?
Ed: I can say that last year reminded us
Democracy can die behind closed doors
But we, as people we were born
Behind these closed doors
And we don't have to give
Our privacy in order to have a good government.
We do not have to give up our freedom
For security
And I think by working together
We can have an open government
And a private life
I yearn to work with everyone
Around the world to see it happen.
Thank you so much.
Chris: Ed, thank you.
(clap)